At NCPA we believe in utilizing scaffolds to support rigorous instruction in the classroom. In this lesson I asked students first to think about a topic, so I had a question on the board, and then I asked them to free write about that topic for two minutes. Free writing is when you have students take a set amount of time from two minutes to five minutes and where they are asked to just write whatever comes to mind. So there's, you can have a prompt or you don't necessarily have to have a writing prompt, but the students are asked to write without stopping to read what they've written and without going back to correct. We were studying the giver, so one of the things that I asked them was is it better to live in a world of freedom or is it better to live in a world of safety. After two minutes was up I had them to stop wherever they were, whether they'd finished the sentence or not, and then turn and talk with their tables about what they had written. The giver and the donors received a lot of different memories. Some of them are happy, some of them suffer. Different people have different thoughts. The pain is also not the same to everybody, so everyone knows the pain. They suffer it. Create wisdom. Once you suffer it you will learn many different things. So they will have an experience about how to overcome the pain. And also you learn how to deal with different pain in different conditions. Pain is not equal to suffering. It brings experience that let us learn more. The free writing allowed them time to collect their thoughts without really having any pressure so that then they were able to more cogently talk about those thoughts with their table. This is a good strategy because it helps to get students out of writer's block and it helps students to kind of be a little bit more creative in their thought process and to think more deeply about a topic. For our students I think it's an especially good strategy because a lot of times ELLs need a little extra time to collect their thoughts because it's not quite as easy for them to just on the spot come up with what they want to say because they're having to do it in a second language. And so free writing gives them that time. It gives them the confidence that now that they've written about it they know what they have to say about it so then they can kind of share with other people more confidently in spoken English.