We're the middle school science team. We teach seventh and eighth grade at the moment. We have about 20 students in a class and we love them. As a content teacher, usually I have to think about what we're doing first and then we will have some meetings and we'll talk about what we need the students to eventually achieve. We'll think about how we can support our students who are EAL learners to be able to access that content. One of the main philosophies that we focus on in this class is about student understanding. Whether they're understanding at that word level in English or the sentence or the discourse level. We will make sure we are providing bilingual instructions at the beginning to help students to access the content. Right now, and at the much better than beginning of the class, I will just use a very easy English word translated to easy plain English. For me, as an EAL teacher, I always track students' language data and their progression. Especially this year, we have been doing lots of writing practices, writing assessments. I can be able to collect data regularly, so that's a way that can allow me to be more intentional in the class. With this scaffolding practice, we give them key words that we translate at the beginning and now we're trying to get them to ask questions and also communicate in English with the words that they can. How does this show us everything? Don't just tell me what they need. Don't just tell me the other pieces of the art. I need you to explain. Once they have more knowledge and skills, we adapt our instructions to challenge them to speak more, to write more in English. Can you use these examples or not? Ask. Please ask. Please ask. By gradually building this scaffold in our classrooms, we can see, especially in our science class this year, the students' writing improvement is great. One model I use to integrate content and language practices into our classroom is the word sentence discourse model. I will identify writing structure or organization as the discourse level to help students to use to explain their scientific ideas and thinking. And that provides a model text for the students to envision. We use language test card practice to build as a routine in our classrooms to help integrate more language practices for students to practice in the classroom so that they can be able to practice reading, writing, speaking, all of these language domains in the classrooms in a variety of ways.